README.md, before:

# LinWhisper

Floating voice-to-text tool for Linux. Click to record, click to transcribe and paste — powered by Groq's Whisper API.

## Privacy First

LinWhisper runs entirely on your machine. Your microphone is **never accessed** until you explicitly click the record button — there is no background listening. Audio is captured in-memory, sent directly to the Groq API for transcription, and immediately discarded. Raw audio is never written to disk. Only the transcribed text is stored locally in SQLite.

## Features

- Always-on-top floating microphone button
- One-click voice recording with visual feedback
- Transcription via Groq API (whisper-large-v3-turbo)
- Auto-pastes transcribed text into focused input field
- SQLite history with right-click access
- No background mic access — recording only on explicit click
- Audio stays in-memory, never saved to disk

## Dependencies

### System packages (Debian/Ubuntu)

```bash
sudo apt install libgtk-4-dev libgraphene-1.0-dev libvulkan-dev libasound2-dev xclip xdotool
```

### Runtime

- X11 session (Wayland not currently supported for paste/positioning)
- Working microphone

## Setup

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/adolfousier/linwhisper.git
   cd linwhisper
   ```

2. Create a `.env` file with your Groq API key:
   ```
   GROQ_API_KEY=your_key_here
   GROQ_STT_MODEL=whisper-large-v3-turbo
   ```

3. Build and run:
   ```bash
   cargo build --release
   cargo run --release
   ```

## Usage

- **Left-click** the floating button to start recording (turns red with pulse)
- **Left-click** again to stop — audio is sent to Groq, transcription is pasted into your focused input
- **Right-click** to view transcription history or quit

> **Note:** Auto-paste uses `xclip` and `xdotool` to simulate Ctrl+V. Some applications or Wayland sessions may not support this. If text doesn't paste automatically, it will still be copied to your clipboard — just paste manually with Ctrl+V.

## Stack

| Component | Crate/Tool |
|-----------|-----------|
| GUI | gtk4-rs (GTK 4) |
| Audio | cpal + hound |
| API | reqwest (multipart) |
| Database | rusqlite (bundled SQLite) |
| Paste | xclip + xdotool |
| Config | dotenvy |

## License

MIT — see [LICENSE](LICENSE)

Commit message:

v0.1.1: improved UI, drag-to-move, popover menu
- Redesigned button: rectangular, red idle / green recording / amber
  processing, with border and clean hover (no GTK overlay)
- Drag-to-move via GTK4 WindowHandle, position persists across sessions
- Right-click popover menu (History / Quit) instead of WM context menu
- History dialog no longer hides the floating button
- Settings table in SQLite for position persistence
- Added Arch Linux deps to README

README.md, after:

# LinWhisper

Floating voice-to-text tool for Linux. Click to record, click to transcribe and paste — powered by Groq's Whisper API.

## Privacy First

LinWhisper runs entirely on your machine. Your microphone is **never accessed** until you explicitly click the record button — there is no background listening. Audio is captured in-memory, sent directly to the Groq API for transcription, and immediately discarded. Raw audio is never written to disk. Only the transcribed text is stored locally in SQLite.

## Features

- Always-on-top floating microphone button (draggable, position persists)
- One-click voice recording with visual feedback (red idle, green recording)
- Transcription via Groq API (whisper-large-v3-turbo)
- Auto-pastes transcribed text into focused input field
- SQLite history with right-click access
- No background mic access — recording only on explicit click
- Audio stays in-memory, never saved to disk

## Dependencies

### System packages

**Debian/Ubuntu:**
```bash
sudo apt install libgtk-4-dev libgraphene-1.0-dev libvulkan-dev libasound2-dev xclip xdotool wmctrl
```

**Arch Linux:**
```bash
sudo pacman -S gtk4 graphene vulkan-icd-loader alsa-lib xclip xdotool wmctrl
```

### Runtime requirements

- **X11 session required** — LinWhisper relies on `xdotool`, `xclip`, and `wmctrl` for window positioning, clipboard, and paste simulation. These are X11-only tools and **do not work on native Wayland**. If your distro runs Wayland by default (GNOME 41+, Fedora, etc.), you can either:
  - Log in to an X11/Xorg session from your display manager
  - Run under XWayland (may partially work, but not guaranteed)
- Working microphone

## Setup

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/adolfousier/linwhisper.git
   cd linwhisper
   ```

2. Create a `.env` file with your Groq API key:
   ```
   GROQ_API_KEY=your_key_here
   GROQ_STT_MODEL=whisper-large-v3-turbo
   ```

3. Build and run:
   ```bash
   cargo build --release
   cargo run --release
   ```

## Usage

| Action | What happens |
|---|---|
| **Left-click** | Start recording (button turns green with pulse, shows stop icon) |
| **Left-click again** | Stop recording, transcribe, auto-paste into focused input |
| **Right-click** | Popover menu with History and Quit |
| **Drag** | Move the button anywhere on screen — position saved across sessions |

> **Note:** Auto-paste uses `xclip` and `xdotool` to simulate Ctrl+V. If text doesn't paste automatically, it will still be copied to your clipboard — just paste manually with Ctrl+V.

## Stack

| Component | Crate/Tool |
|-----------|-----------|
| GUI | gtk4-rs (GTK 4) |
| Audio | cpal + hound |
| API | reqwest (multipart) |
| Database | rusqlite (bundled SQLite) |
| Paste | xclip + xdotool |
| Config | dotenvy |

## License

MIT — see [LICENSE](LICENSE)
